# ARC
Advanced RedGate Compare

###Overview
Out of the box RedGate traditionally only compares one data source to one another data source.  
These data sources can be either a database or a file repository.   

Who just has a single database?  Everywhere I have worked we have 5 minimal to track.  
What if you have 5 core but just want to easily monitor 30 or more.   

There are a few ways to track your changes when modifying your scripts.  Common way is to add what you did at the top of the script change.  Now you know what that person did on this date. If you want to see the change then you can compare.  What if you want to see what to see what was change back 3 revisions ago? 
Seeing the comment 3 revisions back doesn't reveal what was really changed.  To do this we need some sort of version history stored in a repository.  Having a couple of options; I have used SVN previously but using GIT is the norm here so let's stick with that.  The other factor is we don't develop in a sequential order amongst our dev teams. Who knows what is going to QA from what team and do we want those changes in our dev environment? We may not be ready for those since we are not on the same release cycle as the other teams.  

Now having access to RedGate SDK, Git and the love to make my job and others easier I came up with Advanced RedGate Comparer, ARC for short. ARC was design to make existing tasks easier.    I decided to do this in WPF using the MVVM pattern.  
I'll be honest I didn't separate it fully like I wanted to. Each section could be refactor to be its own View and ViewModels.

On start the app will check to see if have a SQL Toolkit license. I think just having the SDK is valid as well.  Review your license if you run into issues.


###Configuration Menu Option
  Open Config Folder
  
    ServerList.xml - Configure the database server/credentials and file repositories.
    DatabaseList.xml - Configure the list of databases to connect to.
    FilterList.xml - Allows you to configure different filters per environment. (coming soon)
    CompareList.xml - Allows you to configure different compare options per environment.
    
  Open Development Folder  
    Opens up the folder which contains the scripts generated by ARC.
    
  Save Configuration
    Saves what you have selected for databases and compare options.
    
###DataSource Compare
  You can compare 2 types of data sources; Microsoft SQL Database or SQL Scripts in a source control repository.
  Git Integration: The first step to integrated Git int ARC was to display what branch the user is working on. To accomplish this I used LibGit2Sharp. Now that I have that working we could build on that to wire up with Sync to Source action. This would allow the ability to commit to the repository when syncing.
  Executing the Compare will cycle through the databases.  Using the IAsyncResult you have the limit of 64 request. I haven't reached this limit in this application but in case you have the need to do so it will queue the requests.

###Compare Options
  Allows you to configure different options per environment.
  You can add and remove options in the config file.  The only list I can find is in the Options list from the SDK.
  The compare options are used during the compare of the datasources.
  
###Filters
  The filters are used after the comparison is complete of the datasources.
  This is currently not complete but will allow us to create custom filters and use the built in filters as well.
  
###Database Object Differences
  This tree displays the database objects differences.
  
###Generated Object List
  This textbox contains the list of objects which you plan on scripting or changing and want to paste in your task notes.
  
###Action Buttons
  RedGate - Launches the RedGate SQL Compare.  ARC builds out the .scp file which SQL Compare uses.
  Beyond Compare - Detects if it is version 3 or 4.  Should be configurable so that different text diffing tool could be used. The file is not generic and create the filename based on Source1_vs_Source2_DatabaseName_SQLCompareXml.scp.
  Generate ObjectList - Loops through all of the databases and find what is selected and generates the change list.
  Generate Script - Loops through all of the selected database and generates the deployment and rollback script.
  Sync -> Source2 - Loops through all of the selected database and updates the database or script repository.
  
###Quick Object Diff Viewer
  I didn't want to launch an external app so I started to create one myself as well as look around to see what is out there.
